.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Please send feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2013/05/10 22:32:56 $
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GEOG_PROJ 3
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm GeogProjLonLatToXY
.Nm GeogProjXYToLonLat
.Nm GeogProjXYToLonLat,
.Nm GeogProjLonLatToXY,
.Nm GeogProjSetCylEqDist,
.Nm GeogProjSetCylEqArea,
.Nm GeogProjSetMercator,
.Nm GeogProjSetLambertConfConic,
.Nm GeogProjSetLambertEqArea,
.Nm GeogProjSetStereographic,
.Nm GeogProjSetOrthographic,
.Nm GeogProjSetRotation,
.Nm GeogProjSetFmStr
.Nd convert between geographic and map coordinates.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <geog_proj.h>"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjLonLatToXY "double lon" "double lat" "double *x_p" "double *y_p" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjXYToLonLat "double x" "double y" "double *lon_p" "double *lat_p" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetCylEqDist "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetMercator "double lon0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetCylEqArea "double lon0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetLambertConfConic "double lon0" "double lat0" "double lat1" "double lat2" "struct GeogProj *proj_p"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetLambertEqArea "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetStereographic "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetOrthographic "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Ft void
.Fn GeogProjSetRotation "struct GeogProj *projPtr" "double angle"
.Ft int
.Fn GeogProjSetFmStr "char *line" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions convert between longitude latitude pairs and map coordinates
(x, y, also know as abscissa ordinate). Unless otherwise indicated, angles,
including longitudes and latitudes, are measured in radians. Map distances are
given in the unit that accompanies the return value of
.Fn GeogREarth .
Default is meters, but distance unit can be changed. See
.Xr geog_lib 3 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjLonLatToXY
computes map coordinates for the geographic point at longitude
.Fa lon ,
latitude 
.Fa lat
using the projection type and parameters stored in 
.Fa projPtr .
If successful, the map coordinates are placed at
.Fa x_p ,
.Fa y_p
and the function returns true.
If conversion is not possible or something goes wrong, the values at
.Fa x_p ,
.Fa y_p
are set to
.Dv NAN
and the function returns false.
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjXYToLonLat
computes geographic coordinates for the point on a map at
.Fa x ,
.Fa y
using the projection type and parameters stored in 
.Fa projPtr .
If successful, the longitude and latitude are placed at
.Fa lon_p ,
.Fa lat_p .
If conversion is not possible or something goes wrong, the values at
.Fa lon_p ,
.Fa lon_p
are set to
.Dv NAN
and the function returns false.
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetCylEqDist
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Cylindrical Equidistant with map origin at the point with
longitude
.Fa lon0 ,
latitude
.Fa lat0 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetMercator
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Equatorial Mercator with map origin on the meridian with longitude
.Fa lon0 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetCylEqArea
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Cylindrical Equal Area with map origin on the meridian with longitude
.Fa lon0
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetLambertConfConic
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Lambert Conformal Conic with map origin at the point with longitude
.Fa lon0 ,
latitude
.Fa lat0 ,
and standard parallels at latitudes
.Fa lat1
and
.Fa lat2 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetLambertEqArea "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Lambert Equal Area with map origin at the point with
longitude
.Fa lon0 ,
latitude
.Fa lat0 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetStereographic "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Polar Stereographic with map origin at the point with
longitude
.Fa lon0 ,
latitude
.Fa lat0 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetOrthographic "double lon0" "double lat0" "struct GeogProj *projPtr"
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
to Orthographic with map origin at the point with
longitude
.Fa lon0 ,
latitude
.Fa lat0 .
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetRotation
rotates the projection at
.Fa projPtr
by
.Fa angle
radians clockwise.
.Pp
.Fn GeogProjSetFmStr
sets the projection at
.Fa projPtr
as indicated in text string
.Fa line .
The following forms are recognized. Longitudes and latitudes are measured in
.Em degrees.
.D1 CylEqDist lon0 lat0
.D1 CylEqArea lon0
.D1 Mercator lon0
.D1 LambertConfConic lon0 lat0 lat1 lat2
.D1 LambertEqArea lon0 lat0
.D1 Stereographic lon0 lat0
.D1 Orthographic lon0 lat0
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Return values are either true (
.Dv 1
) if the function succeeded, or false (
.Dv 0
) if something went wrong. Error
messages, if any, are printed to standard error.
.Sh KEYWORDS
geography projection
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr geog_lib 3 ,
.Rs
.%B J. P. Snyder. Map Projections Used by the U.S. Geological Survey, Geological Survey Bulletin 1532. Second Edition. United States Government Printing Office, Washington, 1982
.Re
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
